# JavaScript ES6
ECMAScript is a standardized version of JavaScript with the goal of unifying the language's specifications and features. As all major browsers and JavaScript-runtimes follow this specification, the term ECMAScript is interchangeable with the term JavaScript.

The most recent standardized version is called ECMAScript 6 (ES6), released in 2015. This new version of the language adds some powerful features that will be covered in this section of challenges, including:
- Arrow functions
- Classes
- Modules
- Promises
- Generators
- `let` and `const`

## Differences Between the `var` and `let` Keywords
One of the biggest problems with declaring variables with the var keyword is that you can overwrite variable declarations without an error.

```js
var camper = 'James';
var camper = 'David';
console.log(camper);
// logs 'David'
```

As you can see in the code above, the camper variable is originally declared as James and then overridden to be David. In a small application, you might not run into this type of problem, but when your code becomes larger, you might accidentally overwrite a variable that you did not intend to overwrite. Because this behavior does not throw an error, searching and fixing bugs becomes more difficult.

A new keyword called let was introduced in ES6 to solve this potential issue with the var keyword. If you were to replace var with let in the variable declarations of the code above, the result would be an error.

```js
let camper = 'James';
let camper = 'David'; // throws an error
```

This error can be seen in the console of your browser. So unlike `var`, when using `let`, a variable with the same name can only be declared once. Note the `"use strict"`. This enables Strict Mode, which catches common coding mistakes and "unsafe" actions. For instance:

```js
"use strict";
x = 3.14; // throws an error because x is not declared
```

### Scope
When you declare a variable with the var keyword, it is declared globally, or locally if declared inside a function.

The `let` keyword behaves similarly, but with some extra features. When you declare a variable with the let keyword inside a block, statement, or expression, its scope is limited to that block, statement, or expression.

For example:

```js
var numArray = [];
for (var i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  numArray.push(i);
}
console.log(numArray);
// returns [0, 1, 2]
console.log(i);
// returns 3
```

With the `var` keyword, `i` is declared globally. So when `i++` is executed, it updates the global variable. This code is similar to the following:

```js
var numArray = [];
var i;
for (i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  numArray.push(i);
}
console.log(numArray);
// returns [0, 1, 2]
console.log(i);
// returns 3
```

This behavior will cause problems if you were to create a function and store it for later use inside a for loop that uses the i variable. This is because the stored function will always refer to the value of the updated global i variable.

```js
var printNumTwo;
for (var i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  if (i === 2) {
    printNumTwo = function() {
      return i;
    };
  }
}
console.log(printNumTwo());
// returns 3
```

As you can see, `printNumTwo()` prints 3 and not 2. This is because the value assigned to `i` was updated and the `printNumTwo(`) returns the global `i` and not the value `i` had when the function was created in the for loop. The `let` keyword does not follow this behavior:

```js
'use strict';
let printNumTwo;
for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  if (i === 2) {
    printNumTwo = function() {
      return i;
    };
  }
}
console.log(printNumTwo());
// returns 2
console.log(i);
// returns "i is not defined"
```

`i` is not defined because it was not declared in the global scope. It is only declared within the for loop statement. `printNumTwo()` returned the correct value because three different `i` variables with unique values (0, 1, and 2) were created by the `let` keyword within the loop statement.

## Declare a Read-Only Variable with the `const` Keyword
The keyword let is not the only new way to declare variables. In ES6, you can also declare variables using the `const` keyword.

`const` has all the features that let has, with the added bonus that variables declared using `const` are read-only. They are a constant value, which means that once a variable is assigned with `const`, it cannot be reassigned.

```js
"use strict";
const FAV_PET = "Cats";
FAV_PET = "Dogs"; // returns error
```

As you can see, trying to reassign a variable declared with `const` will throw an error. You should always name variables you don't want to reassign using the `const` keyword. This helps when you accidentally attempt to reassign a variable that is meant to stay constant.

A common practice when naming constants is to use all uppercase letters, with words separated by an underscore. It is common for developers to use uppercase variable identifiers for immutable values and lowercase or camelCase for mutable values (objects and arrays).

### Mutate an Array
The `const` declaration has many use cases in modern JavaScript.

Some developers prefer to assign all their variables using `const` by default, unless they know they will need to reassign the value. Only in that case, they use `let`.

However, it is important to understand that objects (including arrays and functions) assigned to a variable using `const` are still mutable. Using the `const` declaration only prevents reassignment of the variable identifier.

```js
"use strict";
const s = [5, 6, 7];
s = [1, 2, 3]; // throws error, trying to assign a const
s[2] = 45; // works just as it would with an array declared with var or let
console.log(s); // returns [5, 6, 45]
```

As you can see, you can mutate the object `[5, 6, 7]` itself and the variable `s` will still point to the altered array `[5, 6, 45]`. Like all arrays, the array elements in `s` are mutable, but because `const` was used, you cannot use the variable identifier `s` to point to a different array using the assignment operator.

### Prevent Object Mutation
`const` declaration alone doesn't really protect your data from mutation. To ensure your data doesn't change, JavaScript provides a function `Object.freeze` to prevent data mutation.

Once the object is frozen, you can no longer add, update, or delete properties from it. Any attempt at changing the object will be rejected without an error.

```js
let obj = {
  name:"FreeCodeCamp",
  review:"Awesome"
};
Object.freeze(obj);
obj.review = "bad"; // will be ignored. Mutation not allowed
obj.newProp = "Test"; // will be ignored. Mutation not allowed
console.log(obj); 
// { name: "FreeCodeCamp", review:"Awesome"}
```

## Arrow Functions to Write Concise Anonymous Functions
In JavaScript, we often don't need to name our functions, especially when passing a function as an argument to another function. Instead, we create inline functions. We don't need to name these functions because we do not reuse them anywhere else.

To achieve this, we often use the following syntax:

```js
const myFunc = function() {
    const myVar = "value";
    return myVar;
}
```

ES6 provides us with the syntactic sugar to not have to write anonymous functions this way. Instead, you can use arrow function syntax:

```js
const myFunc = () => {
    const myVar = "value";
    return myVar;
}
```

When there is no function body, and only a return value, arrow function syntax allows you to omit the keyword `return` as well as the brackets surrounding the code. This helps simplify smaller functions into one-line statements:

```js
const myFunc = () => "value";
```

This code will still return `value` by default.

### Arrow Functions with Parameters
Just like a regular function, you can pass arguments into an arrow function.

```js
// doubles input value and returns it
const doubler = (item) => item * 2;
```

If an arrow function has a single argument, the parentheses enclosing the argument may be omitted.

```js
// the same function, without the argument parentheses
const doubler = item => item * 2;
```

It is possible to pass more than one argument into an arrow function.

```js
// multiplies the first input value by the second and returns it
const multiplier = (item, multi) => item * multi;
```

## Default Parameters for Your Functions
In order to help us create more flexible functions, ES6 introduces default parameters for functions.

```js
const greeting = (name = "Anonymous") => "Hello " + name;

console.log(greeting("John")); // Hello John
console.log(greeting()); // Hello Anonymous
```

The default parameter kicks in when the argument is not specified (it is undefined). As you can see in the example above, the parameter `name` will receive its default value `"Anonymous"` when you do not provide a value for the parameter. You can add default values for as many parameters as you want.

## Rest Parameter with Function Parameters
In order to help us create more flexible functions, ES6 introduces the **rest** parameter for function parameters. With the rest parameter, you can create functions that take a variable number of arguments. These arguments are stored in an array that can be accessed later from inside the function.

```js
function howMany(...args) {
    return "You have passed " + args.length + " arguments.";
}
console.log(howMany(0, 1, 2)); // You have passed 3 arguments.
console.log(howMany("string", null, [1, 2, 3], { })); // You have passed 4 arguments.
```

The rest parameter eliminates the need to check the `args` array and allows us to apply `map()`, `filter(`) and `reduce()` on the parameters array.

## Spread Operator to Evaluate Arrays In-Place
ES6 introduces the spread operator, which allows us to expand arrays and other expressions in places where multiple parameters or elements are expected.

The ES5 code below uses apply() to compute the maximum value in an array:

```js
var arr = [6, 89, 3, 45];
var maximus = Math.max.apply(null, arr); // returns 89
```

We had to use `Math.max.apply(null, arr)` because `Math.max(arr)` returns `NaN`. `Math.max()` expects comma-separated arguments, but not an array. The spread operator makes this syntax much better to read and maintain.

```js
const arr = [6, 89, 3, 45];
const maximus = Math.max(...arr); // returns 89
```

`...arr` returns an unpacked array. In other words, it spreads the array. However, the spread operator only works in-place, like in an argument to a function or in an array literal. The following code will not work:

```js
const spreaded = ...arr; // will throw a syntax error
```

## Destructuring Assignment to Extract Values from Objects
Destructuring assignment is special syntax introduced in ES6, for neatly assigning values taken directly from an object.

Consider the following ES5 code:

```js
const user = { name: 'John Doe', age: 34 };

const name = user.name; // name = 'John Doe'
const age = user.age; // age = 34
```

Here's an equivalent assignment statement using the ES6 destructuring syntax:

```js
const { name, age } = user;
// name = 'John Doe', age = 34
```

## Destructuring Assignment to Assign Variables from Objects
Destructuring allows you to assign a new variable name when extracting values. You can do this by putting the new name after a colon when assigning the value.

Using the same object from the last example:

```js
const user = { name: 'John Doe', age: 34 };
```

Here's how you can give new variable names in the assignment:

```js
const { name: userName, age: userAge } = user;
// userName = 'John Doe', userAge = 34
```

You may read it as "get the value of `user.name` and assign it to a new variable named `userName`" and so on.